doc/manual/csvimportfields.rst, before:

.. _csvimportfields:

Appendix: CSV file import fields
================================

ASM will recognise columns with the following names when importing CSV files.
Where you wish to supply multiple rows for the same animal (such as for
vaccinations or regimens), make sure you have a populated ANIMALCODE column,
similarly for multiple rows to people (such as movements, licenses, etc) make
sure you have populated person data.

When processing animal records that already exist, there are certain key fields
that will be overwritten on the existing animal from the CSV data. These fields
are ANIMALNEUTERED[DATE], ANIMALMICROCHIP[DATE] and ANIMALHEALTHPROBLEMS. This
allows you to use a spreadsheet of data on chipping/neutering days and import
that data to your existing animals afterwards.

ANIMALCODE
    A code for the animal. If supplied, it will set the sheltercode and short sheltercode fields. If not supplied, the system will generate a code for the animal to the appropriate scheme. If you have manual codes turned on and no animal code is supplied, an error message will be displayed and the import abandoned.
ANIMALNAME
    The animal's name
ANIMALIMAGE
    A photo for the animal, it can either be a fully qualified HTTP URL to a JPG image OR a base64 encoded JPG expressed as a data URI
ANIMALPDFDATA
    A PDF file to attach to the animal. Like image, it can be a fully qualified URL or a base64 encoded PDF as a data URI
ANIMALPDFNAME
    The filename associated with the PDF data
ANIMALNONSHELTER
    Y/N to indicate whether this animal is a owned by a member of the public and not a shelter animal
ANIMALNOTFORADOPTION
    Y/N to indicate whether this animal is not available for adoption (Y is not available).
ANIMALTRANSFER
    Y/N to indicate whether this animal as transferred in. If set to Y, the ORIGINALOWNER fields will be used in the "Transferred From" field.
ANIMALFLAGS
    A comma separated list of animal flags, including builtins courtesy,
    crueltycase, notforadoption, notforregistration, nonshelter, quarantine
ANIMALSEX
    The animal's gender. ASM looks for the initial letter “M” in the string to indicate male, "F" for Female or "U" for Unknown.
ANIMALTYPE
    The animal's type. This should correspond to one of ASM's animal types from your database.
ANIMALCOLOR
    The animal's color. This should correspond to a color in your database.
ANIMALBREED1
    The animal's primary breed. It should match a breed in your database.
ANIMALBREED2
    The animal's secondary breed. If different from ANIMALBREED1, ASM will mark the animal as a crossbreed.
ANIMALDOB
    The animal's date of birth. This field, or ANIMALAGE must be supplied or the record will not be imported.
ANIMALSIZE
    The animal's size. This should correspond to a size in your database.
ANIMALWEIGHT
    The animal's weight as a floating point number of pounds or kilos (eg: 2.5 = 2 lb and 8 oz)
ANIMALAGE
    The animal's current age in years. ASM will calculate a date of birth from this during import if ANIMALDOB is not supplied or blank.
ANIMALLOCATION
    The animal's location within your shelter. This should correspond to a location in your database.
ANIMALUNIT
    The unit within the animal's location within the shelter, eg: pen/cage number.
ANIMALJURISDICTION
    The jurisidiction to allocate the animal to based on entry circumstances (usually pickup)
ANIMALPICKUPLOCATION
    The location where the animal was picked up. This should match a value in the pickup location lookup.
ANIMALPICKUPADDRESS
    The address where the animal was picked up.
ANIMALSPECIES
    The animal's species. This should match a species in your database.
ANIMALHOUSETRAINED
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALGOODWITHCATS
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALGOODWITHDOGS
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALGOODWITHKIDS
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALCOMMENTS
    Some comments to put in the animal's comment field.
ANIMALHIDDENDETAILS
    Some comments for the animal's hidden details field.
ANIMALMARKINGS
    Some comments for the animal's markings field.
ANIMALHEALTHPROBLEMS
    Some comments for the animal's health problems field.
ANIMALNEUTERED
    Y/N to indicate yes/no
ANIMALNEUTEREDDATE
    The date the animal was neuteured. If supplied and not blank, ANIMALNEUTERED = Y is also assumed.
ANIMALMICROCHIP
    If not blank, ASM will mark the animal microchipped with this as the microchip number.
ANIMALMICROCHIPDATE
    The date the microchip was implanted
ANIMALTATTOO
    If not blank, ASM will mark the animal tattooed with this as the tattoo number.
ANIMALTATTOODATE
    The date the tattoo was implanted
ANIMALDECLAWED
    Y/N to indicate yes/no
ANIMALHASSPECIALNEEDS
    Y/N to indicate yes/no
ANIMALENTRYDATE
    The date the animal entered the shelter (date brought in). Today's date will be used if this column is not present or the value is blank.
ANIMALENTRYCATEGORY
    The animal's entry category, which should correspond to an entry category in your database.
ANIMALREASONFORENTRY
    Free text, notes on the reason the animal entered the shelter.
ANIMALDECEASEDDATE
    If the animal is deceased, the date it died.
ANIMALADDITIONAL<fieldname>
    If you have animal additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called Weight, ANIMALADDITIONALWEIGHT
CURRENTVETTITLE
    If we have current vet info for the animal, the vet's title.
CURRENTVETINITIALS
    Vet's initials.
CURRENTVETFIRSTNAME
    The vet's first name(s).
CURRENTVETLASTNAME
    The vet's last name. This column being present and having data in it determines whether or not the importer will consider the animal as having current vet info.
CURRENTVETADDRESS
    Vet's address.
CURRENTVETCITY
    The vet's city/town.
CURRENTVETSTATE
    The vet's state/county.
CURRENTVETZIPCODE
    The vet's zip or postcode.
CURRENTVETJURISDICTION
    The vet's jurisdiction
CURRENTVETHOMEPHONE
    The vet's home phone.
CURRENTVETWORKPHONE
    The vet's work phone.
CURRENTVETCELLPHONE
    The vet's mobile phone.
CURRENTVETEMAIL
    The vet's email.
CURRENTVETADDITIONAL<fieldname> 
    If you have person additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called DateOfBirth CURRENTVETADDITIONALDATEOFBIRTH
DONATIONDATE
    The date the donation amount on this line was received. If movement columns are present, it will be attached to the movement as well as the person. If no person columns are present, having this column in the CSV file will cause an error.
DONATIONAMOUNT
    The amount of the donation on this line (as a floating point number)
DONATIONFEE
   The amount of any transaction fee in handling the donation
DONATIONCHECKNUMBER
    The cheque/check number for the donation
DONATIONCOMMENTS
    Any comments to go with the donation
DONATIONPAYMENT
    The payment method to use (should correspond to a payment method in your database, eg: Cash)
DONATIONTYPE
    The payment type to use (should correspond to a payment type in your database).
DONATIONGIFTAID
    Y / N if the payment should have the giftaid flag set
LICENSETYPE
    The license type to use (licenses need at least person info)
LICENSENUMBER
    The license number (mandatory)
LICENSEFEE
    The fee paid for the license
LICENSEISSUEDATE
    The date the license was issued
LICENSEEXPIRESDATE
    The date the license expires
LICENSECOMMENTS
    Any comments on the license
LOGDATE
   The date of any log entry (only animal logs can be imported)
LOGTYPE
   The type of log entry
LOGCOMMENTS
   The log entry itself
MEDICALNAME
    The name of the medical regimen for this line
MEDICALDOSAGE
    The dosage of the medical regimen
MEDICALGIVENDATE
    The date the medical regimen started (only one-off treatment regimens can be created via import)
MEDICALCOMMENTS
    Any comments on the medical regimen
MOVEMENTTYPE
    The type of movement for this line (0 = Reservation, 1 = Adoption, 2 = Foster, 3 = Transfer, 4 = Escaped, 5 = Reclaimed, 6 = Stolen, 7 = Released to Wild, 8 = Moved to Retailer. If MOVEMENTTYPE is not specified, but a MOVEMENTDATE has been given, ASM will default the type to adoption. If MOVEMENTTYPE is 0, then MOVEMENTDATE and MOVEMENTRETURNDATE will be used to set the reservation date and reservation cancelled date fields.
MOVEMENTDATE
    The date of the movement
MOVEMENTRETURNDATE
    The return date of the movement
MOVEMENTCOMMENTS
    Any comments for the movement
ORIGINALOWNERTITLE
    If we have original owner info for the animal, the person's title.
ORIGINALOWNERINITIALS
    Original owner's initials.
ORIGINALOWNERFIRSTNAME
    The original owner's first name(s).
ORIGINALOWNERLASTNAME
    The original owner's last name. This column being present and having data in it determines whether or not the importer will consider the animal as having original owner info.
ORIGINALOWNERADDRESS
    Original owner's address.
ORIGINALOWNERCITY
    The original owner's city/town.
ORIGINALOWNERSTATE
    The original owner's state/county.
ORIGINALOWNERZIPCODE
    The original owner's zip or postcode.
ORIGINALOWNERJURISDICTION
    The original owner's jurisdiction
ORIGINALOWNERHOMEPHONE
    The original owner's home phone.
ORIGINALOWNERWORKPHONE
    The original owner's work phone.
ORIGINALOWNERCELLPHONE
    The original owner's mobile phone.
ORIGINALOWNEREMAIL
    The original owner's email.
ORIGINALOWNERFLAGS
    This column can be used to set any other person flags on the original owner. Flags should be comma separated with no extra spaces. Built in flags are their lower case English names, eg: banned,aco,homechecked,homechecker,excludefrombulkemail
    Additional flags that you have added to the system should exactly match their flag names as they appear on the person screens, eg: banned,Fundraising Flag 1,Custom Flag
ORIGINALOWNERADDITIONAL<fieldname> 
    If you have person additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called DateOfBirth ORIGINALOWNERADDITIONALDATEOFBIRTH
PERSONCLASS
    1 = Individual/Couple, 2 = Organisation
PERSONTITLE
    The person's title
PERSONINITIALS
    The person's initials
PERSONFIRSTNAME
    The person's first name (forenames)
PERSONLASTNAME
    The person's last name (surname)
PERSONNAME
    If this field is supplied, ASM will assume it contains first names and a last name, overriding any fields that set those. Everything up to the last space is considered first names and everything up to the last space the last name.
PERSONADDRESS
    The person's address
PERSONCITY
    The person's town/city
PERSONSTATE
    The person's state/county
PERSONZIPCODE
    The person's zip or postcode
PERSONJURISDICTION
    The person's jurisdiction
PERSONHOMEPHONE
    The person's home phone number
PERSONWORKPHONE
    The person's work phone number
PERSONCELLPHONE
    The person's cell/mobile number
PERSONEMAIL
    The person's email address
PERSONGDPRCONTACTOPTIN
    The GDPR contact optin values, separated by a comma. These values are: didnotask, declined, email, post, sms, phone
PERSONMEMBER
    Y or 1 in this column to indicate the person should have the membership flag set.
PERSONMEMBERSHIPNUMBER
    The person's membership number
PERSONMEMBERSHIPEXPIRY
    A date for when this person's membership expires
PERSONFOSTERER
    Y or 1 in this column to indicate the person should have the fosterer flag set.
PERSONFOSTERCAPACITY
    The number of animals this person is willing to foster
PERSONDONOR
    Y or 1 in this column to indicate the person is a regular donor.
PERSONFLAGS
    This column can be used to set any other person flags on the imported person. Flags should be comma separated with no extra spaces. Built in flags are their lower case English names, eg: banned,aco,homechecked,homechecker,excludefrombulkemail
    Additional flags that you have added to the system should exactly match their flag names as they appear on the person screens, eg: banned,Fundraising Flag 1,Custom Flag
PERSONCOMMENTS
    Any comments to go with the person record.
PERSONMATCHACTIVE
    Y or 1 in this column indicates the person is looking for an animal. If this field is not set to Y or 1, the other PERSONMATCH columns are ignored for this row.
PERSONMATCHADDED
    The date the system should start looking for matches
PERSONMATCHEXPIRES
    The date the system should stop looking for matches
PERSONMATCHSEX
    The gender. ASM looks for the initial letter “M” in the string to indicate male, "F" for Female, "U" for Unknown or "A" for any
PERSONMATCHSIZE
    The size of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHCOLOR
    The color of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHAGEFROM, PERSONMATCHAGETO
    The age range of the animal the person is looking for in years
PERSONMATCHTYPE
    The animal type of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHSPECIES
    The species of animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHBREED1, PERSONMATCHBREED2
    The breed of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHGOODWITHCATS, PERSONMATCHGOODWITHDOGS, PERSONMATCHGOODWITHCHILDREN, PERSONMATCHHOUSETRAINED
    The good with/housetrained flags of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHCOMMENTSCONTAIN
    The animal this person is looking for will have this value in its comments
PERSONADDITIONAL<fieldname>
    If you have person additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called DateOfBirth PERSONADDITIONALDATEOFBIRTH
PERSONIMAGE
    A photo for the person, it can either be a fully qualified HTTP URL to a JPG image OR a base64 encoded JPG expressed as a data URI
PERSONPDFDATA
    A PDF file to attach to the person. Like image, it can be a fully qualified URL or a base64 encoded PDF as a data URI
PERSONPDFNAME
    The filename associated with the PDF data
TESTTYPE
   The type of test on this line
TESTRESULT
   The test result
TESTDUEDATE
   The due date for the test
TESTPERFORMEDDATE
   The date the test was performed
TESTCOMMENTS
   Any comments for the test
VACCINATIONTYPE
    The type of vaccination on this line 
VACCINATIONDUEDATE
    The due date for the vaccination
VACCINATIONGIVENDATE
    The date the vaccination was given
VACCINATIONEXPIRESDATE
    The date the vaccine wears off and needs to be re-administered
VACCINATIONMANUFACTURER
    The manufacturer of the vaccine
VACCINATIONBATCHNUMBER
    The serial/batch number of the vaccine
VACCINATIONRABIESTAG
    The rabies tag accompanying the vaccine
VACCINATIONCOMMENTS
    Comments on the vaccine

Commit message:

Add animal coat type to CSV import.

doc/manual/csvimportfields.rst, after:

.. _csvimportfields:

Appendix: CSV file import fields
================================

ASM will recognise columns with the following names when importing CSV files.
Where you wish to supply multiple rows for the same animal (such as for
vaccinations or regimens), make sure you have a populated ANIMALCODE column,
similarly for multiple rows to people (such as movements, licenses, etc) make
sure you have populated person data.

When processing animal records that already exist, there are certain key fields
that will be overwritten on the existing animal from the CSV data. These fields
are ANIMALNEUTERED[DATE], ANIMALMICROCHIP[DATE] and ANIMALHEALTHPROBLEMS. This
allows you to use a spreadsheet of data on chipping/neutering days and import
that data to your existing animals afterwards.

ANIMALCODE
    A code for the animal. If supplied, it will set the sheltercode and short sheltercode fields. If not supplied, the system will generate a code for the animal to the appropriate scheme. If you have manual codes turned on and no animal code is supplied, an error message will be displayed and the import abandoned.
ANIMALNAME
    The animal's name
ANIMALIMAGE
    A photo for the animal, it can either be a fully qualified HTTP URL to a JPG image OR a base64 encoded JPG expressed as a data URI
ANIMALPDFDATA
    A PDF file to attach to the animal. Like image, it can be a fully qualified URL or a base64 encoded PDF as a data URI
ANIMALPDFNAME
    The filename associated with the PDF data
ANIMALNONSHELTER
    Y/N to indicate whether this animal is a owned by a member of the public and not a shelter animal
ANIMALNOTFORADOPTION
    Y/N to indicate whether this animal is not available for adoption (Y is not available).
ANIMALTRANSFER
    Y/N to indicate whether this animal as transferred in. If set to Y, the ORIGINALOWNER fields will be used in the "Transferred From" field.
ANIMALFLAGS
    A comma separated list of animal flags, including builtins courtesy,
    crueltycase, notforadoption, notforregistration, nonshelter, quarantine
ANIMALSEX
    The animal's gender. ASM looks for the initial letter “M” in the string to indicate male, "F" for Female or "U" for Unknown.
ANIMALTYPE
    The animal's type. This should correspond to one of ASM's animal types from your database.
ANIMALCOLOR
    The animal's color. This should correspond to a color in your database.
ANIMALCOATTYPE
    The animal's coat type. This should correspond to a coat type in your database.
ANIMALBREED1
    The animal's primary breed. It should match a breed in your database.
ANIMALBREED2
    The animal's secondary breed. If different from ANIMALBREED1, ASM will mark the animal as a crossbreed.
ANIMALDOB
    The animal's date of birth. This field, or ANIMALAGE must be supplied or the record will not be imported.
ANIMALSIZE
    The animal's size. This should correspond to a size in your database.
ANIMALWEIGHT
    The animal's weight as a floating point number of pounds or kilos (eg: 2.5 = 2 lb and 8 oz)
ANIMALAGE
    The animal's current age in years. ASM will calculate a date of birth from this during import if ANIMALDOB is not supplied or blank.
ANIMALLOCATION
    The animal's location within your shelter. This should correspond to a location in your database.
ANIMALUNIT
    The unit within the animal's location within the shelter, eg: pen/cage number.
ANIMALJURISDICTION
    The jurisidiction to allocate the animal to based on entry circumstances (usually pickup)
ANIMALPICKUPLOCATION
    The location where the animal was picked up. This should match a value in the pickup location lookup.
ANIMALPICKUPADDRESS
    The address where the animal was picked up.
ANIMALSPECIES
    The animal's species. This should match a species in your database.
ANIMALHOUSETRAINED
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALGOODWITHCATS
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALGOODWITHDOGS
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALGOODWITHKIDS
    Y/N/U to indicate yes/no/unknown
ANIMALCOMMENTS
    Some comments to put in the animal's comment field.
ANIMALHIDDENDETAILS
    Some comments for the animal's hidden details field.
ANIMALMARKINGS
    Some comments for the animal's markings field.
ANIMALHEALTHPROBLEMS
    Some comments for the animal's health problems field.
ANIMALNEUTERED
    Y/N to indicate yes/no
ANIMALNEUTEREDDATE
    The date the animal was neuteured. If supplied and not blank, ANIMALNEUTERED = Y is also assumed.
ANIMALMICROCHIP
    If not blank, ASM will mark the animal microchipped with this as the microchip number.
ANIMALMICROCHIPDATE
    The date the microchip was implanted
ANIMALTATTOO
    If not blank, ASM will mark the animal tattooed with this as the tattoo number.
ANIMALTATTOODATE
    The date the tattoo was implanted
ANIMALDECLAWED
    Y/N to indicate yes/no
ANIMALHASSPECIALNEEDS
    Y/N to indicate yes/no
ANIMALENTRYDATE
    The date the animal entered the shelter (date brought in). Today's date will be used if this column is not present or the value is blank.
ANIMALENTRYCATEGORY
    The animal's entry category, which should correspond to an entry category in your database.
ANIMALREASONFORENTRY
    Free text, notes on the reason the animal entered the shelter.
ANIMALDECEASEDDATE
    If the animal is deceased, the date it died.
ANIMALADDITIONAL<fieldname>
    If you have animal additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called Weight, ANIMALADDITIONALWEIGHT
CURRENTVETTITLE
    If we have current vet info for the animal, the vet's title.
CURRENTVETINITIALS
    Vet's initials.
CURRENTVETFIRSTNAME
    The vet's first name(s).
CURRENTVETLASTNAME
    The vet's last name. This column being present and having data in it determines whether or not the importer will consider the animal as having current vet info.
CURRENTVETADDRESS
    Vet's address.
CURRENTVETCITY
    The vet's city/town.
CURRENTVETSTATE
    The vet's state/county.
CURRENTVETZIPCODE
    The vet's zip or postcode.
CURRENTVETJURISDICTION
    The vet's jurisdiction
CURRENTVETHOMEPHONE
    The vet's home phone.
CURRENTVETWORKPHONE
    The vet's work phone.
CURRENTVETCELLPHONE
    The vet's mobile phone.
CURRENTVETEMAIL
    The vet's email.
CURRENTVETADDITIONAL<fieldname> 
    If you have person additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called DateOfBirth CURRENTVETADDITIONALDATEOFBIRTH
DONATIONDATE
    The date the donation amount on this line was received. If movement columns are present, it will be attached to the movement as well as the person. If no person columns are present, having this column in the CSV file will cause an error.
DONATIONAMOUNT
    The amount of the donation on this line (as a floating point number)
DONATIONFEE
   The amount of any transaction fee in handling the donation
DONATIONCHECKNUMBER
    The cheque/check number for the donation
DONATIONCOMMENTS
    Any comments to go with the donation
DONATIONPAYMENT
    The payment method to use (should correspond to a payment method in your database, eg: Cash)
DONATIONTYPE
    The payment type to use (should correspond to a payment type in your database).
DONATIONGIFTAID
    Y / N if the payment should have the giftaid flag set
LICENSETYPE
    The license type to use (licenses need at least person info)
LICENSENUMBER
    The license number (mandatory)
LICENSEFEE
    The fee paid for the license
LICENSEISSUEDATE
    The date the license was issued
LICENSEEXPIRESDATE
    The date the license expires
LICENSECOMMENTS
    Any comments on the license
LOGDATE
   The date of any log entry (only animal logs can be imported)
LOGTYPE
   The type of log entry
LOGCOMMENTS
   The log entry itself
MEDICALNAME
    The name of the medical regimen for this line
MEDICALDOSAGE
    The dosage of the medical regimen
MEDICALGIVENDATE
    The date the medical regimen started (only one-off treatment regimens can be created via import)
MEDICALCOMMENTS
    Any comments on the medical regimen
MOVEMENTTYPE
    The type of movement for this line (0 = Reservation, 1 = Adoption, 2 = Foster, 3 = Transfer, 4 = Escaped, 5 = Reclaimed, 6 = Stolen, 7 = Released to Wild, 8 = Moved to Retailer. If MOVEMENTTYPE is not specified, but a MOVEMENTDATE has been given, ASM will default the type to adoption. If MOVEMENTTYPE is 0, then MOVEMENTDATE and MOVEMENTRETURNDATE will be used to set the reservation date and reservation cancelled date fields.
MOVEMENTDATE
    The date of the movement
MOVEMENTRETURNDATE
    The return date of the movement
MOVEMENTCOMMENTS
    Any comments for the movement
ORIGINALOWNERTITLE
    If we have original owner info for the animal, the person's title.
ORIGINALOWNERINITIALS
    Original owner's initials.
ORIGINALOWNERFIRSTNAME
    The original owner's first name(s).
ORIGINALOWNERLASTNAME
    The original owner's last name. This column being present and having data in it determines whether or not the importer will consider the animal as having original owner info.
ORIGINALOWNERADDRESS
    Original owner's address.
ORIGINALOWNERCITY
    The original owner's city/town.
ORIGINALOWNERSTATE
    The original owner's state/county.
ORIGINALOWNERZIPCODE
    The original owner's zip or postcode.
ORIGINALOWNERJURISDICTION
    The original owner's jurisdiction
ORIGINALOWNERHOMEPHONE
    The original owner's home phone.
ORIGINALOWNERWORKPHONE
    The original owner's work phone.
ORIGINALOWNERCELLPHONE
    The original owner's mobile phone.
ORIGINALOWNEREMAIL
    The original owner's email.
ORIGINALOWNERFLAGS
    This column can be used to set any other person flags on the original owner. Flags should be comma separated with no extra spaces. Built in flags are their lower case English names, eg: banned,aco,homechecked,homechecker,excludefrombulkemail
    Additional flags that you have added to the system should exactly match their flag names as they appear on the person screens, eg: banned,Fundraising Flag 1,Custom Flag
ORIGINALOWNERADDITIONAL<fieldname> 
    If you have person additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called DateOfBirth ORIGINALOWNERADDITIONALDATEOFBIRTH
PERSONCLASS
    1 = Individual/Couple, 2 = Organisation
PERSONTITLE
    The person's title
PERSONINITIALS
    The person's initials
PERSONFIRSTNAME
    The person's first name (forenames)
PERSONLASTNAME
    The person's last name (surname)
PERSONNAME
    If this field is supplied, ASM will assume it contains first names and a last name, overriding any fields that set those. Everything up to the last space is considered first names and everything up to the last space the last name.
PERSONADDRESS
    The person's address
PERSONCITY
    The person's town/city
PERSONSTATE
    The person's state/county
PERSONZIPCODE
    The person's zip or postcode
PERSONJURISDICTION
    The person's jurisdiction
PERSONHOMEPHONE
    The person's home phone number
PERSONWORKPHONE
    The person's work phone number
PERSONCELLPHONE
    The person's cell/mobile number
PERSONEMAIL
    The person's email address
PERSONGDPRCONTACTOPTIN
    The GDPR contact optin values, separated by a comma. These values are: didnotask, declined, email, post, sms, phone
PERSONMEMBER
    Y or 1 in this column to indicate the person should have the membership flag set.
PERSONMEMBERSHIPNUMBER
    The person's membership number
PERSONMEMBERSHIPEXPIRY
    A date for when this person's membership expires
PERSONFOSTERER
    Y or 1 in this column to indicate the person should have the fosterer flag set.
PERSONFOSTERCAPACITY
    The number of animals this person is willing to foster
PERSONDONOR
    Y or 1 in this column to indicate the person is a regular donor.
PERSONFLAGS
    This column can be used to set any other person flags on the imported person. Flags should be comma separated with no extra spaces. Built in flags are their lower case English names, eg: banned,aco,homechecked,homechecker,excludefrombulkemail
    Additional flags that you have added to the system should exactly match their flag names as they appear on the person screens, eg: banned,Fundraising Flag 1,Custom Flag
PERSONCOMMENTS
    Any comments to go with the person record.
PERSONMATCHACTIVE
    Y or 1 in this column indicates the person is looking for an animal. If this field is not set to Y or 1, the other PERSONMATCH columns are ignored for this row.
PERSONMATCHADDED
    The date the system should start looking for matches
PERSONMATCHEXPIRES
    The date the system should stop looking for matches
PERSONMATCHSEX
    The gender. ASM looks for the initial letter “M” in the string to indicate male, "F" for Female, "U" for Unknown or "A" for any
PERSONMATCHSIZE
    The size of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHCOLOR
    The color of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHAGEFROM, PERSONMATCHAGETO
    The age range of the animal the person is looking for in years
PERSONMATCHTYPE
    The animal type of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHSPECIES
    The species of animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHBREED1, PERSONMATCHBREED2
    The breed of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHGOODWITHCATS, PERSONMATCHGOODWITHDOGS, PERSONMATCHGOODWITHCHILDREN, PERSONMATCHHOUSETRAINED
    The good with/housetrained flags of the animal the person is looking for
PERSONMATCHCOMMENTSCONTAIN
    The animal this person is looking for will have this value in its comments
PERSONADDITIONAL<fieldname>
    If you have person additional fields defined, you can put the uppercased version of their name as a suffix to this. Eg, for an additional field called DateOfBirth PERSONADDITIONALDATEOFBIRTH
PERSONIMAGE
    A photo for the person, it can either be a fully qualified HTTP URL to a JPG image OR a base64 encoded JPG expressed as a data URI
PERSONPDFDATA
    A PDF file to attach to the person. Like image, it can be a fully qualified URL or a base64 encoded PDF as a data URI
PERSONPDFNAME
    The filename associated with the PDF data
TESTTYPE
   The type of test on this line
TESTRESULT
   The test result
TESTDUEDATE
   The due date for the test
TESTPERFORMEDDATE
   The date the test was performed
TESTCOMMENTS
   Any comments for the test
VACCINATIONTYPE
    The type of vaccination on this line 
VACCINATIONDUEDATE
    The due date for the vaccination
VACCINATIONGIVENDATE
    The date the vaccination was given
VACCINATIONEXPIRESDATE
    The date the vaccine wears off and needs to be re-administered
VACCINATIONMANUFACTURER
    The manufacturer of the vaccine
VACCINATIONBATCHNUMBER
    The serial/batch number of the vaccine
VACCINATIONRABIESTAG
    The rabies tag accompanying the vaccine
VACCINATIONCOMMENTS
    Comments on the vaccine
